---
layout: post
title:  "Bounty - ICDevs.org ICRC-4 Rust"
date:   2023-03-24 00:00:00 -0600
categories: "Bounties"
author: Austin Fatheree
---

# ICDevs.org ICRC-4 Rust

## Current Status: Discussion

* Discussion (03/24/2023)
* Ratification: (TBD)
* Open for application: (TBD)
* Assigned (TBD)
* In Review 
* Closed 

[Forum Link - Discussion](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/proposed-icdevs-org-bounty-icrc-4-standard-15-000/)

## Bounty Details

* Bounty Amount: $2,000 USD of ICP at award date.
* ICDevs.org Bounty Acceleration: For each 1 ICP sent to 1a25118faf5e325df52b38ff021560e6e0232b816f6526eb575156a6cb5f1ce1, ICDevs.org will add .25 ICP to this issue and .75 ICP to fund other ICDevs.org initiatives.
* Developer Type: Individual
* Opened: TBD
* Time Commitment: Days
* Project Type: Rust
* Experience Type: Expert - ICP Ledger and batch transaction processing

## Description

The proposed ICRC-4 standard seeks to add batch transaction processing to the existing ICRC-1 standard. The new standard will enable faster processing of bulk transaction scenarios, such as paying out royalties to many parties.  https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/4

The ICRC-1 standard currently allows for the processing of one transaction at a time. This can be time-consuming and inefficient, particularly when dealing with large numbers of transactions. By adding batch transaction processing to the standard, developers will be able to process multiple transactions at once, reducing processing times and improving efficiency.

This bounty is only open to members of the token working group who have active projects that could benefit from this functionality. As the standard has not been finalized yet, the purpose of this bounty is not only to produce code, but also to produce a report outlining the possible vulnerabilities to the batch scheme and any performance issues that are encountered.

The ICRC-4 proposal includes a corresponding code implementation that will allow developers to incorporate batch transaction processing into their applications. This will enable developers to create applications that are more scalable and efficient, particularly when dealing with large volumes of transactions.

To create this new ICRC-4 functionality, the project will require an experienced developer who understands ICRC-1 transaction flow and batch transaction processing. You will need deep knowledge of the ICP and SNS ledgers. The dev will work closely with the DFINITY community to ensure that the code meets the needs of developers working on the Internet Computer.

This bounty should fork from the existing rust code for the ICP and SNS ledger at https://github.com/dfinity/ic.

This bounty gives the opportunity to

* learn about Rust
* learn about ICRC-1
* learn about the ICP and SNS ledger

## To apply for this bounty you should:

* Include links to previous work building web applications and any other open-source contributions (i.e., your Github).
* Provide a brief overview of how you will complete the task. This can include things like which dependencies you will use, how you will make it self-contained, the sacrifices you would have to make to achieve that, or how you will make it simple. Anything that can convince us you are taking a thoughtful and expert approach to this design.
* Give an estimated timeline on completing the task.
* Post your application text to the Bounty Thread

## Selection Process

The ICDevs.org developer's advisors will propose a vote to award the bounty and the Developer Advisors will vote.

## Bounty Completion

Please keep your ongoing code in a public repository(fork or branch is ok). Please provide regular (at least weekly) updates.  Code commits count as updates if you link to your branch/fork from the bounty thread.  We just need to be able to see that you are making progress.

The balance of the bounty will be paid out at completion.

Once you have finished, please alert the dev forum thread that you have completed work and where we can find that work.  We will review and award the bounty reward if the terms have been met.  If there is any coordination work(like a pull request) or additional documentation needed we will inform you of what is needed before we can award the reward.

## Bounty Abandonment and Re-awarding

If you cease work on the bounty for a prolonged(at the Developer Advisory Board's discretion) or if the quality of work degrades to the point that we think someone else should be working on the bounty we may re-award it.  We will be transparent about this and try to work with you to push through and complete the project, but sometimes, it may be necessary to move on or to augment your contribution with another resource which would result in a split bounty.

## Funding

The bounty was generously funded by the DFINITY Foundation. If you would like to turbocharge this bounty you can seed additional donations of ICP to 1a25118faf5e325df52b38ff021560e6e0232b816f6526eb575156a6cb5f1ce1.  ICDevs will add .25 for every 1 token donated to the bounty.  All donations will be tax deductible for US Citizens and Corporations.  If you send a donation and need a donation receipt, please email the hash of your donation transaction, physical address, and name to donations@icdevs.org.  More information about how you can contribute can be found at our [donations page](https://icdevs.org/donations.html).


## FYI: General Bounty Process

### Discussion

The draft bounty is posted to the DFINITY developer's forum for discussion

### Ratification: (01/09/2023)

The developer advisor's board will propose a bounty be ratified and a vote will take place to ratify the bounty.  Until a bounty is ratified by the Dev it hasn't been officially adopted. Please take this into consideration if you are considering starting early.

### Open for application

Developers can submit applications to the Dev Forum post.  The council will consider these as they come in and propose a vote to award the bounty to one of the applicants.  If you would like to apply anonymously you can send an email to austin at icdevs dot org or sending a PM on the dev forum.

### Assigned

A developer is currently working on this bounty, you are free to contribute, but any splitting of the award will need to be discussed with the currently assigned developer.

### In Review

The Dev Council is reviewing the submission

### Awarded

The award has been given and the bounty is closed.


[Other ICDevs.org Bounties](https://icdevs.org/bounties.html)

